Document for Getting started with service binding (#37088)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/sbo-creating-a-postgresql-database-instance.adoc

[id="sbo-creating-a-postgresql-database-instance_{context}"]
= Creating a PostgreSQL database instance

> For creating a database instance, you have to create a `PostgresCluster` custom resource (CR) and configure the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a database instance, create a `PostgresCluster` custom resource (CR) and configure the database.
```

    service.binding/port: path={.spec.port}
    service.binding/username: path={.metadata.name}
    service.binding/host: path={.metadata.annotations.proxy}
    service.binding/type: path={.metadata.annotations.type}
spec:
  image: registry.developers.crunchydata.com/crunchydata/crunchy-postgres-ha:centos8-13.4-0
  postgresVersion: 13
  instances:
    - name: instance1
      dataVolumeClaimSpec:
        accessModes:
        - "ReadWriteOnce"
        resources:
          requests:
            storage: 1Gi
  backups:
    pgbackrest:
      image: registry.developers.crunchydata.com/crunchydata/crunchy-pgbackrest:centos8-2.33-2
      repos:
      - name: repo1
        volume:
          volumeClaimSpec:
            accessModes:
            - "ReadWriteOnce"
            resources:
              requests:
                storage: 1Gi
      - name: repo2
        volume:
          volumeClaimSpec:
            accessModes:
            - "ReadWriteOnce"
            resources:
              requests:
                storage: 1Gi
  proxy:
    pgBouncer:
        image: registry.developers.crunchydata.com/crunchydata/crunchy-pgbouncer:centos8-1.15-2
EOD
----
+

> The annotations added in this `PostgresCluster` CR help in enabling the service binding connection and trigger the Operator reconciliation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The annotations added in this `PostgresCluster` CR help to enable the service binding connection and to trigger the Operator reconciliation.
```

Edited for idiomatic usage. Is this still accurate?

+
The output verifies that the database instance is created:
+
.Example output
----
namespace/my-postgresql configured
postgrescluster.postgres-operator.crunchydata.com/hippo created
----

> . After the database instance is created, ensure that all the pods in `my-postgresql` namespace are running (it will take a few minutes):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. After you have created the database instance, ensure that all the pods in `my-postgresql` namespace are running (it will take a few minutes):
```
Consider rewording to avoid the passive voice.

+
----
$ oc get pods -n my-postgresql
----
+
The output verifies that the database is created:
+
.Example output
----
NAME                                     READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
hippo-backup-6th6--1-28849               0/1     Completed   0          1m
hippo-instance1-sl4r-0                   2/2     Running     0          2m
hippo-pgbouncer-8454474bc7-lhcn9         2/2     Running     0          2m
----
+

> The database created is empty at this stage. You can set its schema and project a sample data set to interact with the sample application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new database is empty at this stage. You can set its schema and project a sample data set to interact with the sample application.
```
Reword to avoid awkward syntax.

> . Initialize the database with the schema and sample data using the custom shell script by copying the following code into shell and executing it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Initialize the database with the schema and sample data. To do so, use the following custom shell script by copying the code into the shell and running it:
```
Maybe consider breaking this into 2 sentences for simplicity? 

If you keep "shell" it needs a definite article: "the shell."

Also avoid "executing" per the IBM style guide.

+
----
$ cat << EOD | bash
#!/bin/bash

export pgo_cluster_name=hippo
export cluster_namespace=my-postgresql
export pgo_cluster_username=hippo
export PGPASSWORD=\$(oc -n "\${cluster_namespace}" get secrets \
  "\${pgo_cluster_name}-pguser-\${pgo_cluster_username}" -o "jsonpath={.data['password']}" | base64 -d)
nohup oc -n \${cluster_namespace} port-forward svc/hippo-pgbouncer 5432:5432 &
sleep 5
curl -LO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/spring-petclinic/spring-petclinic-rest/master/src/main/resources/db/postgresql/initDB.sql
psql -h localhost -U "\${pgo_cluster_username}" "\${pgo_cluster_name}" -f initDB.sql
curl -LO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/spring-petclinic/spring-petclinic-rest/master/src/main/resources/db/postgresql/populateDB.sql
psql -h localhost -U "\${pgo_cluster_username}" "\${pgo_cluster_name}" -f populateDB.sql
EOD
----
+

> The output in the terminal shows you that the database is getting configured for the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output in the terminal shows you that the database is being configured for the application.
```
Edited for idiomatic usage

> After the database is configured, you can initialize the Role-based access control (RBAC) support for the custom resources (CRs) of Crunchy PostgreSQL Operator by creating appropriate `ClusterRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding` resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the database is configured, you can initialize the Role-based access control (RBAC) support for the custom resources (CRs) of the Crunchy PostgreSQL Operator by creating appropriate `ClusterRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding` resources.
```
Added definite article

> After the database is configured, you can initialize the Role-based access control (RBAC) support for the custom resources (CRs) of Crunchy PostgreSQL Operator by creating appropriate `ClusterRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding` resources.

Reviewer 2: This section is obsolete and should be removed since crunchy postgres is supported by default via #1043. @pedjak please confirm
